Welcome to the introduction of cute now you might wonder what is cute and why is that cute.
Well it's cute because it's going to help us to create two girls very easily and use Python for that.
So this is a little outlook.
What we are going to develop in this chapter so what you're going to be able to do yourself within roughly
two hours one and a half two hours.
And this is a student manager where you can pretty much see or have a table here where we can easily
create new entries.
We can save the data in a file we can read the data for me sees the file.
So it's pretty much a student manager and we're going to create Now cute is meanwhile released and version
5.
Oh it's an extensive GUI framework for C++.
Now you might say another C++ developer I don't want to learn C++ I want to work with Python.
Well you can develop real world applications with it and not just with C++ but also with Python and
these applications and work on make Linux and Windows so they are cross-platform pretty cool.
Pretty good thing you can pretty much create desktop applications with cute.
And this is an example of what the UI looks like and of course we're going to see the UI very soon.
So this is the tool cued creator which we're going to use in order to drag and drop our UI elements
and in order to make some changes to the UI change of properties and those kind of things so it's going
to be rather easy to do a lot of dragging and some changing not that much code required actually.
And how does it work with Python.
Well if we want to develop the program in Python wouldn't it be cool to access code from Python.
Well yes it is cool or it would be cool and it is possible.
So the framework cute itself is written C++.
As I already told you but its functionality can be called from Python.
Now you have Python and you have cute and there are two ways of using qued with Python and one is called
Paiute which is under the GPL licensing.
And the other one is pie side and on under LGPL in order to find out more about what GPL and LGPL is
you can of course always read through that and Google is just pretty much two different ways of licensing
your programs and code if you license something with Paiute and you don't own the paid version of Pi
qued which is rather expensive.
And then you have to open your code or then you have to make your code open source.
If you use pi side you dont have to do that.
But Paiute is a more extended or older version that allows us to use this approach where we can just
use Python in order to work with cute and PI side is a little younger but its under LGPL so you a bit
freer in the ways you use your software and in the ways that you publish your software and make it.
I paid software for example.
OK.
Now there are two different ways to control.
From pie.
And those were the ones that we have just seen.
And the solution to use both of them is cute pie.
So you have pie cute and then you have cute pie and cube pie is allowing you to use both the solutions.
So both those that you have seen heres this one pie qued and pie side.
OK so the cool thing is no matter which way is installed on your system you can both use both of those
ways and you will select one.
And our application can be run very easily with this.
Now in the next lesson we will install cute and all of the tools that we need for this.
And then we will develop a small real desktop application with cute and Python.
So I hope you enjoy this chapter.
And yeah its pretty much Finally something where we can use the code that we have learned and developed
so far and make graphical user interface solutions with it.
So we actually have a desktop application where we can see something we have buttons that you can press
and you have text that can be displayed in a nice way and so forth.
So go ahead and see in the next video.